as good in the javelin as he was in the shot put and
the discus. I guess he was most consistent in the
discus and was better, comparatively speaking,
than the other athletes against whom he competed.
And he consistently won at Texas Relays, Kansas
Relays, and Drake. And he also placed very highly,
I don't recall just how high, in the NCAA and AAU
meet. but George was a consistent point producer,
a good friend, a good man. He was also in Who's Who,
American colleges and universities, a very good
student, very popular on campus. J.D. Hampton, a
distance man, class of 50, was another athlete
that we admired. J.D. and George were
co-captains, as I recall, in 1950. JD set the
conference record in the mile. He also ran the two
mile and most of the time would win his event until
we started running into the Midwestern schools
and of course Kansas and Iowa and Iowa State and
Oklahoma A&M they had always produced distance
men and that was something that other than J.D.
Hampton and Jerry Thompson at Texas, the
Southwest Conference just didn't have distance
men.
Now, in your era, basketball, G. Raleigh wasn't
built yet, was it? No, we played basketball in the
little cracker box, the cozy little cracker box of
DeWare Fieldhouse. Describe an Aggie basketball
game in those days. Oh, it was loud, and the house
was packed. because what else were you going to do
on a weekend or a weeknight at College Station if
you didn't go to Guyon Hall
and you didn't have a car? You'd go to the
basketball game, and besides, the upperclassmen
would make sure that you would show up at the
basketball game. Were there any pranks or tricks
that you all played on the enemy, like the
Longhorns? It didn't make any difference whether
they were Longhorns or not. It just made it sweeter
if we could do it for the Longhorn. But the stands in
DeWare Field House were arranged in such a manner
that they were right on the edge of the
out-of-bounds line. In fact, I think there was
only three or four feet between the out-of-bounds
line and where the concrete stands started. And
the upperclassmen would have, we freshmen, sit on
these concrete lips underneath the iron railing
that went around. And whenever the opposing team
got the ball out of bounds, it was our job to try to
kick the ball out of their hands while they were
trying to inbounds it. And the referees didn't
care for that too much, and especially the
opposing coach. But Marty Corot, who was the coach
then, Marty didn't mind it at all. Anything that we
could do would have been a help. Do you remember any
special moments during an Aggie basketball game,
one of a kind? Well, it was always fun to watch Buddy
Davis and John DeWitt work. They were our two tall
men. Buddy, of course, was 6'10", 6'11". DeWitt
was about 6'4", 6'5".
DeWitt was also one of the most versatile athletes
we ever had here. John was all Southwest
Conference in basketball, baseball, and he won
the Southwest Conference 440 in track in 1952.
John was a class of 51, but he was taking a five-year
architecture program, and he played his first
three years of eligibility out in basketball and
baseball and then asked Colonel Andy if he could
come out for track. Colonel Andy had seen John run
in intramurals before and had timed him in 50 flat.
And so Colonel Andy was just salivating to get John
out there on the track. And he did, and John proved
his worth and won the conference 440 in 1952, which
was his fifth year, but actually his first year of
track eligibility. And football. Football.
Buddy Schaefer, I've already mentioned. What
about Bob Smith? We had Bob Smith. Bob and I had
played football and run track against each other
in high school. He was class of 51. And
I'd never seen a better running back, a better
slasher than Bob Smith. And if he ever got past the
line of scrimmage, it was all over. He would really
punish a linebacker, and a halfback didn't have a
chance. You'd have to hit him low, hit him around
the ankles. You couldn't tackle him. You'd just
have to hit him with a body block and hope you got him
between you and the sidelines to knock him out of
bounds. And I saw him run for 285 yards against Kyle
Roach and SMU. in 1950 in the Cotton Bowl, and we
beat them 25 to 20. He set a new NCAA rushing record,
285 yards in that game. We also had Glenn Lippman,
who was in my class, class 52. El Campo? Yeah, from
El Campo. El Campo produced some fine athletes and
fine students. Glenn Lippman Elo Noavitza, who
was a guard, and Jero Natartus, who was an end. All
three were in the top ten academically. Jero was
valedictorian of our class. And I don't recall
exactly where Glenn and Elo placed, but they were
in the top ten. I'm grinning because all three of
them obviously were of Irish ancestry. Yeah.
Elo... ELO was a Czech ancestry. Glenn Lipman was
German, possibly German-Jewish, I'm not sure.
And Gero was Greek. And Glenn went on into
mechanical engineering and went with some large
engineering firm. I don't recall which. As far as
you know, did most all of those athletic friends of
yours in their later lives, did they have the kind
of achievement that you assumed they would?
Absolutely. Absolutely. They were tops in their
field, and you called them boss five years after
graduation.
Glenn was a supervisor of officials for the
Southwest Conference in later years, and I would
see him at all of our home football games. here in
the Letterman's Association, and his job was to
evaluate the job that the officials did during the
football games. Jarrow was in the banking and
savings and loan business, and I'm not clear about
what Elo did. I haven't seen Elo since, but I see
Glenn frequently and Jarrow occasionally. Now, I
wrote down before we turned the machine on,
athletic tales. What are some of those? Well,
those are many and varied.
I'll start with Bones Irving first. Bones was,
shall we say, frugal. And to give you an example,
After we got lights in Kyle Field, Bones would have
the lights turned off in Kyle Field before the
crowd got out of the stadium. And they would have to
make their way out of the stadium in the dark and
find their cars in the dark because he wanted to
save on electricity. Bones drove a hard bargain
when it came to getting
not amenities, but what I would call necessities
out of the athletic director. Even though Dog
Dawson was the financial manager, Bones always
had the last say. And I remember Colonel Andy
pleading with Bones to get a bus to take us on long
trips, you know, a passenger type bus. And Bones's
first concession to that, that I recall in my
sophomore year, he let us take what we referred to
as the Blue Goose, which was a long-stretched
Chevrolet. It was actually a Chevrolet sedan that
had been cut in half and four or five seats put in it,
and you could carry about 12 to 14 or 15 people. We
would have to take the Blue Goose from here to the
Kansas Relays at Lawrence, Kansas. We would start
out early in the morning, Colonel Andy drove, he
could barely see over the steering wheel, and he
was a short guy, and we would drive to Dallas, have
lunch at Wyatt's Cafeteria, and he would be there
at the cash register to take up our chits, our
checks as we came out, and he would examine each one
carefully and look askance at you if the total went
over more than $3. You'd get a lot of food for $3 in
those days. George Cadera and I were the budget
busters. I was always a chow hound, and of course
Cadera weighed about 245. He was a big guy. And we
would usually have the largest tickets. We'd
drive on up to Orange, Kansas the next day, compete
in the preliminaries, finals on Saturday, drive
back on Sunday. We'd stay in a dormitory on campus.
The following, two weeks after the Kansas relays,
they would have the Drake relays in Des Moines,
Iowa. Ooh, long drive. Well, we rebelled. We told
Colonel Andy that that is too far to be driving the
Blue Goose. That's three days, and you can't
expect us to do that and run in a track meet. And he
allowed us out. That was right, and he went to Bones
to see what Bones could do about it. He initially, I
think, was going to try to go for a passenger bus,
but even so, that would have been a brutal trip. So
he finally got with his friend Clyde Littlefield
down in Texas, and he and Clyde Littlefield agreed
to share a Pullman. The Pullman would originate at
Austin. It would travel on Southern Pacific to
Houston, where it would switch off to the Rock
Island line, We would jump in the Blue Goose and go
over to North Zulich and you had to flag the train
down at North Zulich. But he had an agreement with
the engineer, the conductor, that we would be out
there and we would flag the train down at the water
tower. There was a water tower there and a very
small railway station. So we're all out there on
the side of the railroad track with our baggage And
here comes the train, and Colonel Landy sees the
train, and he goes out there in the middle of the
track, and he's waving his arms back and forth so
that the engineer could see him. Well, the train is
blowing its whistle and all this kind of stuff, and
the train is getting closer and closer, and we're
all worried because Colonel Landy is just waving
harder and harder. And he was jumping up and down.
Stop, USOB, stop. Finally... George Cadera and
somebody else, they grabbed him and pulled him off
of the track. The train went right on by, but it
stopped up at the water tower. And that was where
the engineer planned on stopping.
Coincidentally, it would place the Pullman where
we were waiting for it at the tracks. So, Colonel
Andy's antics went for naught. We'd get on the
train and enjoy the Pullman trip up there. We knew
all the Texas guys. We were all friends. We were
competitors, but friends nevertheless. Now, in a
meet like those two, about how many Aggie track
team members went?
We would
take a mile relay team. That's four people. The
first year, my sophomore year that I went, we took
three herders, Bob Hall, Bill Bless, and myself,
We took Jack Simpson, who was a pole vaulter, and
George Cadera, who was a weight man. Oh, and J.D.
Hampton and Julian Herring, because they had a
good chance of placing in the distance events. So
10 to 12. 10 to 12 guys, and we always did well at
Drake Relays. Now what did you, as you're going
back and forth, what did you wear? We wore... We
wore sport coats and slacks. Didn't wear
warm-ups? No. On the train? No. We were
representing Texas A&M, and the Texas athletes
dressed accordingly. It was just an unwritten
rule. Did the Aggies and the Longhorn track team,
did they sit near each other and talk? Oh, yeah. We
had poker games, bridge games on the train. As I
say, we were friendly competitors. What were
either spoken or not spoken but clearly
understood, what were Coach Andy's rules for
y'all? Colonel Andy's. In regard to what? When you
were traveling. What were you not to do and what
were you to do when you were away from this campus?
Conduct ourselves like gentlemen. We're
representatives. Texas A&M. We take our books and
make sure we study because when you go on a trip like
that, you're gone for the better part of a week. And
take your books, study, help each other. Just the
way it was. Did anybody do any smoking?
Yeah. Jack Simpson would go out on the train
platform. Jack was a vet. and of course he had
smoked when he was in the service and he still had
the habit and Bob Hall would be known to
occasionally smoke. Could anybody have a beer if
they wanted to? Did Colonel Andy have a policy
about that on a trip? Colonel Andy had no policies
about smoking or drinking. It was just understood
you're grown up now and uh if you smoke and drink
it's your own detriment you're not hurting me okay
colonel andy but there were no rules we i never knew
of anybody dismissed from the track team for a
quote violation of team rules we we didn't have any
we policed ourselves the captains would take care
of that coach didn't have to worry about it and you
normally on those uh to the relays, you stayed in a
dorm. When you went to the Southwest Conference
meets, where did y'all stay? In motels? First of
all, when we went to Kansas, we stayed in dorms.
When we went to Des Moines Island, we stayed in the
Drake Hotel. Oh, okay. We went first class. Okay.
And that surprised us, because we weren't used to
that kind of thing. What about in the... When we
went to the Southwest Conference meet,
We stayed in a motel. I believe it was the South
Congress Motel, or South Austin Motel on South
Congress.
Let's see, other athletic tales. Well,
when we would go to Laredo,
the first, my sophomore year, we took the Blue
Goose. you couldn't get away from that ubiquitous
blue goose. And we'd cram everybody in there and
put the poles on top and the javelins on top and all
this and lash them down. And as we would go through
South Texas, the upperclassmen had told we
lower-classmen, now when we get down here to a
certain spot in Falferius County, Colonel
Landy's going to tell you a story about a deer that
he shot. And so we got ready, and sure enough, we
passed a certain spot in Thalferius County, and
Colonel Landy would say, you see that live oak tree
over there? He says, I killed a buck over there, and
I went over to see about him, and all of a sudden he
jumped up and charged me, and I had my hunting
knife, and we wrestled for ten minutes, and I
finally cut his throat. Going down to Lareda, he
would point that out. Coming back from Lareda, he
would point that out. For three years, I got that
story. And I don't know how many years he's been
telling it. Did you all go across the river? We took
the Blue Goose across the river. And that was a
mistake, because that Blue Goose was pretty long,
and it had a long wheelbase. And you just couldn't
maneuver in some of those. side streets down
there. And we went down to Boys Town just to see what
it was like. And we went to the Cadillac bar to have a
queso dinner. This is after the meet, of course.
And have one of those famous margaritas. And
Colonel Andy never went with us. He stayed at the
hotel. My senior year, we chartered a regular
passenger bus and took the wives. Those of us who
could afford to, we'd have to pay for the wives'
rooms. And we would, all the boys would stay in
their own room through the track team, and the
wives would bunk up together down the hall in the
hotel. But things improved considerably. I don't
know where Bones found the money to do that,
whether he was getting a little more liberal in his
dotage. Now, of all of the athletic experiences
you recall of your own,
can you recall one or two that were among the most
amusing, the goofiest, most ludicrous?
One other story about Cadera and Colonel Andy, and
it had nothing to do with athletics. It just
occurred on an athletic trip. We were going to
Kansas for the Kansas Relays, and Cadera always
carried his own shot and discus with him, and he put
them in a duffel bag. Colonel Andy told Cadera to
put those things up on top of the blue goose. Uh-oh.
I don't want those things down here in the
passenger compartment. Well, Cadera was afraid
the shot would get away from him up there on the
roof, and he would lose it. So he sat on the back seat
of the bus and stuffed that duffel bag underneath
the back seat, put his feet on top of it, and we rode
that way all the way up to Kansas. About the time we
started leaving Oklahoma, started into Kansas.
An old farmer and his pickup truck pulled out from a
side road and Colonel Andy had a jam on the brakes
real hard. Well that shot broke loose from that
duffel bag and went up to the front of the Blue Goose
and it hit the firewall right under Colonel Andy's
feet. He stopped the Blue Goose and ran around to
the back seat, and he had Cadera out of there by his
ear. And he said, Cadera, you blagging like SOB? I
told you to put that thing up. You could have broken
our legs. And Cadera sheepishly sat in the back
seat and held that shot put in his lap for the rest of
the trip. That's a good one. That's a good one.
Other amusing ones that involve, any amusing ones
that involved you? Whether pranks or otherwise.
Well, I wasn't one given to playing pranks on our
trips. Well, if you want to call dropping water
balloons out of the window at the Worthington
Hotel in Fort Worth, pranks, yeah. Who were y'all
dropping them on? We don't know. Who ever happened
to be down there? Nobody got caught. No, because
right after we dropped them, we disappeared. And
all of your track efforts here, what were your
proudest moments? Well, I suppose one
of my most proud moments was when I won the low
hurdles and the Drake relays in a snowstorm. I just
out mudded everybody else. It wasn't that I was all
that fast because truth be known if we were to line
up for a 100 yard dash I'd probably come in last. But
I had strength and power and the mud and the slush
didn't bother me and it bothered the shorter
legged people a lot more. I could go into overdrive
a lot easier than they could. and then gutting it
out against Valjo Walker in the Southwest
Conference meet here in 1951 when I ran faster than
I ever thought I could, and so did Walker. Now, what
was your best time that you ever did? In the highs,
it was 14.2. In the lows, it was 22.9. All right,
those are happy moments. Any real disappointing
moment? Frustrating? No. I
was, I was forking it. Colonel Andy called me his
money player. He said if I was going to go to a horse
race, I'd put my money on you because you ought to
You either win, place, or show. And that was true. I
placed in every event that I ever entered. Now,
your worst injury was when you hurt your knee? My
worst injury occurred
in the spring of my senior year at the Border
Olympics at Laredo. That was also an Olympic year.
I had my sights set on going to the Olympic tryout.
And I had a pretty good chance. And I had trained
hard in the off-season, and we had gone with the
Sugar Bowl track meet, which meant that we had to
train during the winter as well. And I had won the
highs at the Border Olympics, and we lined up for
the lows, and we had a pretty impressive field
there with Bobby Joe Ragsdale from A&M. Billy
Bless, Valjo Walker, Ralph Person from Texas. All
these guys were capable of breaking the
conference record. And several of us had and
several of us did that year. In fact, all of us did
that year, just not in the conference meet
necessarily. And I was leading going over the
fourth hurdle, which was unusual for me. I would
usually make up the ground in the latter part of the
race when the short legged guys were trying to
stretch it to the next hurdle. Now I was leading
over the fourth hurdle and I kicked out my right leg
first to go over the hurdle and something snapped
right behind and just above my knee. That
quadriceps muscle had, or the lower part of the
gluteus maximus had come loose and I felt like I'd
been shot and I was in the middle lane everybody of
course went past me and nothing flat and I hobbled
on one leg over to the grass and pitched out and
grabbed my leg and started moaning and groaning
and I was out for two months it was two months before
I could get back in action And of course, that put me
two months behind everybody else. And I got back in
some semblance of shape and was able to run. By the
time we went out to a four-way meet at the Los
Angeles Coliseum with Southern Cal, UCLA, and
Texas, we drove to Fort Worth, got on a DC-7, and
flew out to Los Angeles. and gave a good account of
ourselves out there. We finished, barely
finished second to USC. I think we would have won
the meet, but one of our regular mile relay guys
stepped in a hole on the infield where they have the
water faucets to turn on the, and he stepped in the
hole and sprained his ankle, and we had to use a
substitute guy on the mile relay, and just barely
got beaten in the mile relay. Otherwise, we would
have won that meet. But I got back in some semblance
of shape. I ran second to Jack.
His last name escapes me now. But he was the
previous year's NCAA champion. And later that
year set a new world record, 13.5. So I stayed
within sight of him, but that was about it. Then in
the Southwest Conference meet, Valjo Walker won
that. Willie Valls from Texas was second. And I was
about a foot behind Willie. And I ran 14.3. which
surprised me. And of course I was out of the running
as far as going to the Olympic trials was concerned
due to losing that two months. Now y'all didn't
have, during your years, were no tragedies that
you and your buddies had to cope with? Nobody broke
a leg, nobody got killed, nobody had a bad car
wreck? No. Minor stuff. Yeah. Let's see, you
mentioned tutoring. Describe that.
Our freshman class, we had a good group of
students, and we had some students who didn't do as
well as others. Put it that way. And the midterm
grades came out in about the second or third week of
January. And then we took a midterm break, come
back to register for the spring on the 30th of
January. When I got back from spring, we didn't
call it spring break then. I don't recall what we
called it. Easter. No, it wasn't Easter. This was
the 30th of January. Oh, semester. We used to call
it semester break. When I got back from that, Dog
Dawson, came up to the dorm one evening and said, I
need to talk to you. Sure, Doc. He said, some of our
guys